Voice jobs api (#316)
DeepLcom/api-docs: api-reference/jobs-voice-translate.mdx

---
title: "Translate Audio Files"
sidebarTitle: "Overview"
description: "Translate pre-recorded audio files into text or audio in other languages using asynchronous jobs."
public: true
---

<Warning>

>   **Alpha.** This API may change without notice. To request access, [submit a support request](https://support.deepl.com/hc/en-us/requests/new). See [alpha and beta features](/docs/resources/alpha-and-beta-features) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Closed alpha.** This API may change without notice and is only available to select DeepL customers. See [alpha and beta features](/docs/resources/alpha-and-beta-features) for details. To request access, contact your customer success manager.
```

</Warning>

The Voice Translate Job API provides asynchronous translation of audio files into text or audio in other languages.

> Unlike the [real-time Voice API](/api-reference/voice), which streams audio over a WebSocket connection, the Voice Translate Job API processes entire audio files asynchronously. This makes it suitable for pre-recorded content such as podcasts, meeting recordings, or media files up to 1 GB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Voice Translate Job API processes entire audio files asynchronously. This makes it suitable for pre-recorded content such as podcasts, meeting recordings, or other media files. For live audio, see the [real-time Voice API](/api-reference/voice).
```

> Each job can produce multiple translation targets simultaneously. For example, a single English podcast can be translated into German text and Spanish audio in one job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each job can translate and transcribe audio into multiple languages. For example, a single English podcast can be translated into both German text and Spanish audio in one job.
```

        },
        data=f,
    )
upload_resp.raise_for_status()

# 3. Poll until every result is complete, downloaded, or failed
TERMINAL = {"complete", "downloaded", "failed"}
while True:
    status_resp = requests.get(
        f"{API_BASE}/v1/jobs/voice/translate/{job_id}",
        headers=api_headers,
    )
    status_resp.raise_for_status()
    status = status_resp.json()
    if all(r["status"] in TERMINAL for r in status["results"]):
        break
    time.sleep(5)

# 4. Download each completed result with its own result signature
for target, result in zip(status["targets"], status["results"]):
    if result["status"] != "complete":
        print(f"{target['language']} ({target['type']}): {result['status']}")
        continue
    download_resp = requests.get(
        result["download_url"],
        headers={"Authorization": f"DeepL-Signature {result['signature']}"},
    )
    download_resp.raise_for_status()
    suffix = ".txt" if target["type"] == "text/plain" else ".bin"
    out_path = Path(f"output-{target['language']}{suffix}")
    out_path.write_bytes(download_resp.content)
    print(f"{target['language']}: wrote {out_path}")
```

> Run it with `DEEPL_AUTH_KEY=... python complete_example.py`. API Free users should change `API_BASE` to `https://api-free.deepl.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run it with `DEEPL_AUTH_KEY=... python complete_example.py`.
```
